Add IQS019 rule (#2384)
home-assistant/developers.home-assistant: docs/core/integration-quality-scale/rules/iqs019.md

---
title: "IQS019 - Can be discovered"
---

IQS019 is as follows:

> Can be discovered

Author: I renamed the rule to move the "if possible" to the exception. Frenck once mentioned we could do way more DHCP discovery, and looking at the numbers, I think I agree. So I'd rather have people go that extra mile and have their mac address checked, than to have them to uncheck it as "cant be discovered"

## Reasoning

A lot of devices have the ability to be discovered.

> This can happen using one of the following methods:

Reviewer: HomeKit, add-on discovery, and MQTT discovery are missing here

- mDNS
- SSDP
- Bluetooth
- DHCP
- USB

This is a great way to make it easier for users to find and set up devices, since they don't have to manually look up which integration to use and then enter the host.
This greatly reduces the effort required to set up a device and thus improves the user experience.

> Using a network based setup, also allows the configuration of the integration to be updated once the device receives a new IP address.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using a network-based setup, also allows the configuration of the integration to be updated once the device receives a new IP address.
```

## Example implementation

In the following example, the integration is discoverable using mDNS.
The device would make itself discoverable by providing a `_mydevice._tcp.local.` service.
Home Assistant will pick this up and start a discovery flow for the user.
The user will then be able to confirm the discovery and set up the integration.

`manifest.json`:
```json
{
  "zeroconf": ["_mydevice._tcp.local."]
}
```

`config_flow.py`:
```python
class MyConfigFlow(ConfigFlow, domain=DOMAIN):
    """My config flow."""

    def __init__(self) -> None:
        """Initialize the config flow."""
        self.data: dict[str, Any] = {}

    async def async_step_zeroconf(
        self, discovery_info: zeroconf.ZeroconfServiceInfo
    ) -> ConfigFlowResult:
        """Handle zeroconf discovery."""
        self.data[CONF_HOST] = host = discovery_info.host

        await self.async_set_unique_id(discovery_info.properties["serialno"])
        self._abort_if_unique_id_configured(updates={CONF_HOST: host})

        client = MyClient(host)

>         await self.client.get_data()

Reviewer 2: What does getting the client data do?

Author: Make sure we can actually fetch data from the device to avoid setting up a device that does not work

Reviewer 2: Right, but we don't catch any exceptions or take any action if it fails.

        return await self.async_step_discovery_confirm()

    async def async_step_discovery_confirm(
        self, user_input: dict[str, Any] | None = None
    ) -> ConfigFlowResult:
        """Confirm discovery."""
        if user_input is not None:
            return self.async_create_entry(
                title="MyIntegration",
                data={CONF_HOST: self.data[CONF_HOST]},
            )

        self._set_confirm_only()
        return self.async_show_form(step_id="discovery_confirm")

>     async def async_step_user(

Reviewer 2: This body doesn't really do anything. I think either we should remove the user step method or show a plausible user step.

Author: I feel like its more of an "oh we set the same unique id here" and that we show that we can set up the device manually as well and that we don't completely rely on discovery

Author: Oh wait, the example doesn't even set an unique id. If we would add that, would that be better?

Reviewer 2: Yes, the user step should make sense in the context of the example. If the user step is shown to show a manual step and a discovery step and their difference that's ok.

Reviewer 2: I'd add the same logic for setting unique id and check for getting data in the user step as in the discovery step.

        self, user_input: dict[str, Any] | None = None
    ) -> ConfigFlowResult:
        """Handle a flow initialized by the user."""
        errors: dict[str, str] = {}
        if user_input:
            return self.async_create_entry(
                title="MyIntegration",
                data=user_input,
            )
        return self.async_show_form(
            step_id="user",
            data_schema=vol.Schema({vol.Required(CONF_HOST): str}),
            errors=errors,
        )
```

## Additional resources

To learn more information about config flows, checkout the [config flow documentation](../../../config_entries_config_flow_handler).
To learn more about discovery on network protocols, checkout the [Networking and discovery documentation](../../../network_discovery).
To learn more about discovery for bluetooth devices, checkout the [Bluetooth documentation](../../../bluetooth).

## Exceptions

The exception to this rule is that not every device can be discovered.

> Integrations that can't be discovered are exempt from this rule.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Integrations where the devices can't be discovered are exempt from this rule.
```

---
title: "IQS019 - Can be discovered"
---

IQS019 is as follows:

Can be discovered

## Reasoning

A lot of devices have the ability to be discovered.
This can happen using one of the following methods:
- mDNS
- SSDP
- Bluetooth
- DHCP
- USB
- HomeKit
- MQTT

> - Add-on

Reviewer 2: I'd sort :abcd:.

        )
```

:::info

> If you are using DHCP discovery, and you want to receive discovery flows for updated IP addresses, be sure to register the MAC address in the device info and set `registered_devices` to `true` in the manifest.

Reviewer 2: I think this should go in another rule. I think I said that already.

Reviewer: That is actually a good point 👍
